---
course: BUS-115

---

Alright, so about to watch this video and offer my fantabulous response to heckin whoever on at the college. Yippee yoo.

1. **Legal Analysis:** Based on what you’ve learned in Chapter 9, do you think the jury’s decision was reasonable? **Discuss** the legal concepts involved and explain your position thoroughly.
2. **Personal Reflection:** Had you heard of this case before? If so, how does the video compare to what you previously believed? Has your opinion changed, and if so, how?

Tort Case as Meme

She originally just wanted her medical bills covered for about $10k.
Jury agreed to $200k but toned it down to $160k due to her having spilled it.
Case proceeded then the push became $2.7 mil, worked down to around $500k.

I agree with what was said at the outset: this is surely one of the most misunderstood stories in the nation. I did not know that she was burned to the third degree and suffered shock. I'm surprised that the common hearsay story is a fabrication! Part of its becoming misinformation is how the story circulated from paper to paper, often with the story being made shorter and shorter, skimming on context. 

Stella Liebeck's attorney, Kevin Wagner, laid out the grounds for the suit straightforwardly: that Stella purchased a product for its intended use and that the temperature of the brew was unreasonably hot and therefore *unreasonably* dangerous. The temperature of the coffee was originally rationalized by McDonald's as it believed to be the demand of the customers and that it was statistically insignificant, 1 for every 21,000,000 coffees served. They were served at 180º to 190º degrees.

## Responses 

1. Concerning Liebeck v. McDonald's, I do believe that the jury had framed their decision well within reason given the context provided, including the gruesome extent to which the coffee was able to scald her body, the running record of over 700 such McDonald's coffee burn cases within 9 years, and McDonald's insistence to continue 180º to 190º degree preparation. The questions in focus in this case are those of negligence, of duty of care, and of foreseeable danger. As Liebeck's Attorney Ken Wagner said, McDonald's coffee temperature was unreasonably hot and unreasonably dangerous, a statement reinforced by contemporary study showing the likelihood of suffering 3rd degree burns in a matter of seconds of skin contact. Qualifying the coffee as unreasonably dangerous resonated with the jury; it must've agreed that the average consumer wouldn't expect an ordinary fast-food coffee purchased for its intended use have the capacity, on accident, to inflict life-altering damage in only seconds. Though there was the fact that Liebeck was in the car and that the spill was accidental, it was not a wholly superseding cause though it reduced her initial payout prospect. I agree with what was said at the outset of the video: this must be one of the most misunderstood stories in the nation. My understanding was the same as the masses before this: that it was a petty move. I did not know that she was burned to the third degree and suffered shock. I'm surprised that the common hearsay story is a fabrication, but I understand now that the misinformation arose in large part due to how the story transmitted from paper to paper at the time, often with the story being made shorter and shorter, skipping context.

2. I'm glad that this case had resulted in among her few asks: to have the temperature officially reduced. You asked if the outcome may have been different if there was no record of prior burns from McDonald's Coffee. Well, in that case, since it would be considered unprecedented and since there were no disclosures or warnings, given Liebeck's injuries were the same and the same contemporary research study released showing the speed at which coffee at that heat could cause 3rd degree burns, I believe she and Mr. Wilson would have had less resistance and more headway into making a swifter end to the case. If there were no records of previous burns, then that would cripple McDonald's resolve to consider Liebeck's case "just another coffee burn payout like the other 700 people."

3. I'm sure many of us were "most people" just a moment ago, and this case bears its complexity in the circumstances and context at the time. On that note, I disagree that McDonald's was supposed to serve _safe_ products. They're supposed to serve what many consider delicious products that'll continue to attract customers and generate revenues. Many may consider their products _unsafe_ for other facets of health. As many large corporations, their fiduciary duty is to their shareholders and to deliver upon that duty, they may have to make risky decisions for the sake of ensuring business health, growth, and continued investment. One of such decisions would have been to continue serving the coffee at 180º-190º because that's been a major selling point about their brand of coffee. Many people must've really enjoyed it, and with that reassurance, McDonald's was more willing to continue paying-out coffee burn settlements over losing what could have been a large part of their coffee sales revenues. Ms. Liebeck originally pursued a more modest claim, just to cover medical bills and lost-earnings. I agree with you here that it was entirely profits ahead of safety concerning McDonald's original decision to settle with a meager $800 payout. I do wonder, had McDonald's fairly covered her bills and more, if an equivalent case would have arisen at all.